# Fluviator

In the US, the price of eggs rose 60% in calendar year 2023, after an outbreak of avian influenza, more commonly known as bird flu, wiped out 50 million chickens. A previous outbreak in 2014/2015 also had death tolls of 55 million chickens, with direct economic damages of $3.3 billion. 

This multibillion dollar figure doesn't even factor downstream impacts of the outbreaks, which include widespread factory shutdowns, increased unemployment, and heightened food security. The health risks also aren’t limited to just farms— human-to-human infection of the avian flu would cause economic losses of USD $2 trillion. The poultry industry also contributes 790 million tons of CO2 emissions each year; widespread avian flu and massive cullings cost GHG emissions on the order of 400 million tons. 

FluFinder empowers farmers to monitor bird flu and potential zoonotic outbreaks in agriculture, building a more healthy and sustainable food system. Most outbreaks start with foreign vectors: specifically, non-flock birds (e.g. ducks, geese, seagulls) that wander near the flock and shed the virus. FluFinder uses autonomous drone technology to move in the perimeter boundaries of where chickens roam, identifying red flags/threats from anomalous birds. This is especially critical for ethical and environmentally-friendly poultry practices that allow chickens space to roam, such as cage-free, free-range, and pasture-raised egg production. (Investigations show that several million birds have been restricted from outdoor access in order to curb the spread of bird flu from wild bird vectors.) 


#Deep Dive into the Business Use Case
Due to the extreme virulence and rapid spread of modern strains of bird flu, most solutions developed in industry are reactive rather than proactive. This is what has allowed outbreaks on the order of several hundred millions of chickens globally. In the US, the common response is that outbreaks are quite slow to be detected; only after a large number of birds have mysteriously died, do farmers suspect disease, at which point their options are to try containing the cases through quarantine or mass cullings of entire farms. Even the process of health checks may spread disease, because the virus spreads easily through contaminated equipment and clothing. A sanitary, remote monitoring system for early-detection is critical to solving the flu crisis-- our tech needs to improve as viral strains become more pathogenic. 

